That's it for this tiny project here. Now
definitely
you can refactor this, so you can change the code,
you can definitely come up with some more elegant solutions.
I structured it like this to show all these class features you have available and when you might want
to use them, showed you a couple of different approaches and ways of thinking about that and hopefully
could show you why classes allow us to split our code into logical units which we then can use to compose
our app together because that really is the idea behind object oriented programming and behind classes
and behind working with objects everywhere, that you have your logic and your data grouped together and
then you just use these bundles of data and logic to put together your application.
Now there are a couple of other things related to classes and to objects which are also useful to know
and for that let's go here to the console and let's create a class here which we can do, let's say a person
class here with class person, place the cursor between the curly braces, hold shift and press enter to
write across multiple lines to make it more readable and there for example let's add a field of name
name with a value of Max
and if we now instantiate that class by calling new person like that, p of course is an object of type person
with a name of Max
and it's this type person which is interesting.
I haven't talked about this before because you need to understand classes, to understand the idea of
of types here.
It's not an official type,
if we do type of p, we'll see this is type object, this is not type person but still somehow Javascript keeps
in mind that this was created based on that person class,
it's not of that type but somewhere this has to be stored otherwise the developer tools couldn't show
this to us and indeed, that is stored somewhere.
There is a special operator, instanceof and you can use it to check if an object is created based on
a certain class or a certain blueprint. You use it by using your concrete object,
in this case p which is this constant it holds the object, then instanceof and then the type or the
class you want to check, for example person like that, without parentheses just like that and this will
return true if p was created based on person or if the value stored in p was created based on person
and it will return false otherwise and actually in Javascript there are a bunch of built-in classes
if you want to call them like this,
technically it's something else but that's something I'll dive into the next module, for now let's call
it class,
for example if we select a button. If I store it in a constant button and I get it with query selector
button which should yield me that first button, that order now button here, if I print that, I get it like
this but if I console dir button like this, I get the object.
Now here I got a different representation
but the interesting thing is there is a type, a class built into Javascript and you'll find something
like that on MDN,
that's how I know that, which is called HTML button element, that's basically a class you could say
built into Javascript or built into the browser, exposed to Javascript and the button btn is an instance
of that. If we check that, we get true here because it's of type HTML button element. Side note, HTML
button element extends from HTML element,
so that's a base class so to say
and therefore button also is an instance of
HTML element. It's for example not an instance of person of course. Now I'll dive deeper into these HTML
elements, where to read more about them, where to find all of that in the DOM deep dive module you'll
find a little bit later in the course, not that far away but it's nice to know right now that you have
these built-in classes and that the instanceof operator here helps you find out if an object you have
is based on that type, based on that class or not.